and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and today i'm joined by
shruti kapoor she's the founder and ceo
over at wingman wingman records
transcribes and analyzes sales calls in
real time given insights and what's
working in the sales process and nudges
to improve your calls treaty welcome to
the show how you doing
i'm good thanks for having me sam no
problems at all we're looking forward to
this so we're going to be talking all
about
how you can get your very first 10
customers as a startup
and i'm sure there's a lot of people
watching or listening today that are
either recently started their business
or perhaps they're thinking in the back
of the mind in the next few months the
next few years i really want to start my
own co my own company
but i'm so nervous um i'm so
apprehensive when it comes to how do i
acquire those customers or perhaps
people have got a business on the side
and they want to accumulate a few
customers before they're ready to take
the leap and go out on their own so this
is going to provide some juicy insights
as you've been there you've done it
shruti into how they do that
but before we get to that
i want to talk about some of the most
common mistakes that you've seen
that
startups make when it comes to selling
when it comes to sales in general
yeah i think
you know of course as a very early
startup um i don't know if you've read
the book like the mom test right i think
startups make that mistake even in that
selling process which is you go and
reach out to people and you try and sell
to people
uh just because you know them right um
they you might know that they're not the
icp for your product uh but just because
you know they're in your network you're
like you know what this is going to be
an easy customer let me go out and get
them first
um and that's a big mistake because uh
one you don't learn from um you know the
feedback that they give you
um and the fee and they will give you
feedback right because you're just
launching your product or service uh and
you will then either land up not
learning or you will line up learning
the wrong things uh because they're
going to tell you stuff that is not
really relevant to your actual icps
right so suppose you were launching um
you know
say a b2c product for like 20 year old
uh men
and instead you went and like you know
if you're authority or founder you went
and like you know your own friends about
it they might have very very different
uh you know budget their uh you know
their priorities might be different and
you'll get feedback that doesn't apply
to your segment
got it okay
so that that's interesting because we've
had a lot of people that have come on
the show and said you should leverage
your your immediate network so i like
the fact that it's it's massively
different and we're saying no don't go
to your friends don't go to your network
go to your actual ideal customer profile
um and it's is that purely street
because
they're more likely to buy a product and
also they'll friends and perhaps people
that we're in close contact with already
are less likely as well to
give us honest and pure feedback they're
rather gonna stroke our egos and perhaps
go lightly on
on
on what they really
think um so i think there are two parts
to it right one is you should still go
to your uh network right like so when i
think about you know how do you get your
first 10 customers i think the network
plays a really important role in that
um but
you know it's important to kind of
be aware that
uh what you should still qualify people
based on the icp that you're looking for
right um so for example a mistake that
i see a lot of other uh founders uh in
sas make is uh they kind of go to their
local market even though they know that
their target market is the us right so
you start with interviewing folks in
whichever country you live in right like
in our case uh we could easily get
access to say 30 icp people within india
it was probably harder for us to get
that same access to folks in the us
right so it's easy for me to go out
there and say let me just go with them
um and you know it can't be so different
and i'll be aware of what those
differences might be
uh but it's it's never that
straightforward right like there's so
many nuances uh those little things
whether that is cultural context whether
that is uh maturity uh of the text back
everything else makes a difference into
what
people actually do with the product um
so yeah i would say that you know if if
you're lucky enough to have your
immediate network b or icp by all means
go with it but
don't don't just go with someone because
they're in your network got it no that
makes sense i suppose it's about
levering leveraging what you've got
already but refining that network to
make sure you're actually tapping into
i guess the ideal fit prospects and make
sure you're not wasting their and your
own your right yourself your time or
your sales team time if you've got a
sales team right
yeah absolutely
cool that makes sense so are there any
other kind of mistakes we need to be
aware of when it comes to selling
whether it is from the founder side or
whether it is you've got a small team
side or anything perhaps you've
experienced shriti that could perhaps
give us a few shortcuts
yeah i think the second mistake and you
know i learned this from other founders
as well the second mistake that a lot of
people make
is when they start selling
you know they they take that word
selling really seriously right so right
they feel that when they get on a call
with somebody who's a potential customer
what they need to be doing is they need
to be talking and selling the area
but instead what you need to be doing is
you need to be actually probing and
understanding the problems uh that your
customers facing um and so like
literally i think i went on like you
know 50 calls with prospects and i was
talking to another founder and they said
what is the first thing you say on a
call and i said you know i introduce
myself and then i start saying why i
created this great product and you know
then i go into it
um and what uh
he told me was that you know the first
question literally has to be
why did you get on the call with me
right and i think that's such an
important piece of advice for everybody
and it's a simple piece of advice that i
think holds true for everyone uh because
that is going to tell you the true
motivation right like yes you might have
you know literally begged them to get on
that call with you but still it was a
choice that they made right like they
could have spent their 30 minutes in 30
different ways uh but since they're
there they're probably looking to get
something out of it and that's
uh you know such a big insight uh when
you get into it and um i would say that
that's kind of you know the second
biggest mistake these mistake people
make especially when you're not from the
sales world and you you know discovery
and everything seems just very strange
and artificial
yeah yeah yeah that's that's it that's
that is a huge mistake isn't it when you
just jump on calls and it's all me me me
centric you just want to talk about
yourself your product how great you are
and if you've been in sales for more
than five minutes you'll realize that
that's immediate turn off for prospects
right
so um i love that question why did you
decide to get on the call with me
because i guess that kind of unpacks and
really tease off the conversation
because they'll give you some some
golden nuggets some some useful advice
onto what intrigued them i guess about
your product or your offering that you
can leverage later along the sales
process right
yeah and i think like you've had to add
the third and maybe the last mistake
that a lot of people make is
um
you know it's related to the second one
which is when they start thinking about
the company they also start thinking
about it from the perspective of the
product or the solution
right um they don't uh and and so you
know the whole timeline of how you think
about the company is okay i have this
great idea now
maybe if i was smart enough i've done
some initial interviews now it's time
for me to go and build that product out
but and so you know literally the order
is okay i built the product uh then i
try and get some initial customers by
doing sales and then at some point later
in the future i think about marketing
right but in fact the order should
actually be reversed because if you get
your marketing uh piece right early on
that can give you so much leverage in
uh you know making the product and the
sales process faster
and you can learn so much more and of
course in the early days while you're
still trying to figure out the products
it's not about you know putting putting
fancy screenshots of wireframes on your
website it's more about you know just
starting out the conversation around the
problem that you're looking to solve
right because
and again this kind of ties also to the
marketing funnel right like there are a
lot more people who understand a problem
than people who are necessarily aware of
a solution or looking for a solution so
even when you think about marketing in
those early days and i think you should
start doing marketing like pretty much
um you know even before you launch a
company or uh write your first line of
code um that's kind of
where i think a lot of people make that
mistake yeah great advice do you think
that
founders of companies
let's use b2b sas as an example because
i know that's what you guys offer
do you think they often know the problem
that they solve when they bring it to
market or do you think they're often
perhaps wrong or not quite right
when it comes to actually really
understanding the crispy exact problem
that customers are coming to them to
solve
um
i think there are people on the entire
range of that spectrum um and the other
part of it really is that
people might understand that the problem
that they want to solve
but the solution that they have in mind
might not actually solve that problem
right it might create a different
problem that then needs to get solved
right
so
i think it's important uh therefore also
to kind of lead with the problem and to
keep iterating on the problem itself
because you're right i might
start off by saying that this is the
problem i want to solve a few months
later when i actually have maybe an mvp
of the product and i see people using it
i realize that either maybe the product
doesn't solve that problem as well as
i'd imagine uh or i realized that maybe
people are actually using it differently
from what i imagine when they're using
it to solve a different problem that
maybe is more tied to
what they do right like just to give you
an example like we at wingman like you
mentioned we record transcribe and
analyze sales calls one of the things
that we noticed early on was that while
people um you know when we interviewed
people they said yes the greatest thing
they would want to be able to do is
coach sales teams uh if they had a
problem a product like that
but what we realized people doing was
that they were actually using it to
coach for deals not necessarily to coach
people all right and then the product in
some sense needs to evolve to say that
okay
yes while coaching is great and people
want to do it it's not something that
happens as often as people would like
to do
but something that absolutely happens uh
every week is pipeline reviews and
coaching on deals right and so if you
can combine both then you bring uh much
more value to the customer so yeah i
think it's important to kind of keep it
reading on that problem statement as
well
yeah yeah yeah so it sounds like
constantly or regularly talking to your
customers
to understand
kind of what they want to get out of it
how it's helping them
the problems they're facing so
not being afraid to i guess
tweak your messaging
tweak your marketing tweak your sales
pitches even i suppose um because
ultimately the customers are the ones
that are going to be buying your product
so you want to make sure it's as close
to
the actual feedback you're getting from
your current customers and as to the
problems how it's helping them how it's
kind of making their business their
lives better and making sure that's on
point
okay absolutely
cool cool um
yeah that's that's some good stuff
around kind of problem solving and
making sure your messaging resonates
with idle customers you want to be
tapping into are there any i don't want
to go too deep into this but um as we've
covered on some episodes before but are
there any
kind of real quick ways for
perhaps businesses now that are thinking
um
i just want a
fairly quick way to understand kind of
the best or crispiest problem that i
solve have you got any tips shriti when
it comes to kind of gathering that intel
from perhaps your existing customers or
new ones
yeah so
you know we in fact went through um
another round of this exercise and i
think it's an exercise that's important
to do every six months at least
the way we went about it was uh to try
and understand um how people you know
what is the job to be done right uh and
you know people might have heard the
jobs to be done framework
um
and the way we started by saying how do
we identify what are the jobs to be done
is we would literally go back and of
course you know since the using man
internally you have access to like you
know thousands of uh customer calls with
our prospects uh we went back and said
you know let's just go and listen to
50 calls in the last few months and just
listen to like the first five minutes
that people are talking about that
particular topic which is you know the
answer to that question why did you get
on this call today
right and that's where we kind of
started realizing what those jobs were
and what we then did and there's another
framework that we used for this exercise
called the value prop uh canvas
uh where we would then start with saying
okay this is the problem this is the you
know job that somebody wants to do
now what happens if they are not able to
do that job right which is what you
would call pain and what happens if they
are able to do that job right and also
why are they not able to do that job
today right so in like as an example
uh if i'm selling to a vp of sales and
they say that they are not able to coach
their sales teams today uh
my question is like you know why are you
not able to coach your sales teams um
and you know what what is kind of the
risk if you're not able to coach your
sales team right um and people might
have an answer like okay there is churn
and you know my teams
i don't hate quota
then that kind of really gives you
insights into saying okay you know what
is the real impact of what i'm trying to
build and that second layer of question
also begins to help you think about
you know other features within the
product right because sometimes the
problem might be a little too abstract
or the job might be abstract
um
and we kind of do the same um you know
the canvas also uh
uh suggest this which is to do the same
exercise starting with your product
instead of starting with the customer
and then you kind of do a matchmaking
right so you start with your product
features uh you then say what is the
game that this feature creates what is
the pain that this feature sounds for
and then you try and map your product
features pains and gains with the
customer pains and gains and then you
kind of begin to get a much better idea
not just of what to build today or in
the future but also how to market and
position that um so that's i think
a really good hack to um doing this and
we in fact plan to do this for every new
feature that we launched so that you
kind of understand how that process
works
yeah yeah so really digging deep into
kind of the problems that prospects
customers are facing and then
understanding the impact
so what happens if they don't fix it why
is it an issue to their business and
then making sure you align your product
features to basically fix those pains i
guess
good stuff so moving this forward um
some i'm sure you've seen this a lot
street some founders i've seen as well
they love selling love talking to new
prospects they might love prospecting on
the phone via email they might get
inbound leads via their marketing
whatever
and then they've got no problem at all
prospecting getting leads in
putting them through the sales process
and getting deals over the line other
founders might be completely on the
other side they might be great
technically when it comes to product
build um they might know everything
about the product how to launch it
create how to work with a team but when
it comes to selling they might be scared
stiff
have you
got any advice for perhaps someone who's
on the other end of the spectrum who
actually dreads the thought of kind of
getting on the phone to new prospects of
how to get stuck in and familiar with
the selling role especially when you're
in a start-up
just to put you on the screen yeah i
think
you know
it's not easy and it's definitely a
little bit of a personality thing right
um and i think when uh
in whichever situation you know you feel
that you're not naturally gifted the way
to compensate for it is with practice
and with um you know resources um and
literally the one piece of advice is
that this is something that you cannot
outsource uh in the early stages uh
right uh and i by also i don't just mean
like to some other agency but like even
to somebody else on the team like you
have to do this
uh as a founder and
i know of many people who made that
mistake we've also partially made those
mistakes ourselves uh in this journey um
now when you're getting on that
conversation
um i think it's important to then break
that journey up in your mind um what
happens is that very
often as founders we're really excited
about the product right that's the thing
that we are truly passionate about
everything else to us comes second right
like whether that's the prospect whether
it's their pain points
you know even revenue comes second right
like you just want people to start using
that great thing that you're building
um and so it's important to break that
journey up uh and be disciplined about
it to say that listen at the end of the
first call
my objective is not necessarily to get
this person to you know be using my
product right at the end of that first
call what should my objective be and
that i think really helps uh in managing
expectations and then keeping that
conversation uh a little bit more
lightweight um because
uh when i go in and i say you know what
the objective from this conversation for
me is to actually understand this
person's problem a little bit deeper or
my objective from this conversation is
to make sure that i show them enough
value or understanding of the problem
that they will get out of the call with
me
then you know that conversation changes
and i don't put so much pressure on
myself so i would say that that's
probably one hack which is to kind of
break it up into saying you know with
this particular meeting or call what i'm
doing is i'm selling the next meeting or
interaction uh right and whether that's
like i'm going to send you an email is
that person going to ever respond to my
email um so i think that's kind of uh
one way to think about it
yeah love that so just not not putting
pressure on yourself that you need to
close a deal but rather thinking look
am i gonna have a good conversation with
this prospect i guess if it's an early
sales call depending on the length and
the sales cycle the sales process and
how long it might take are we gonna take
the time to understand kind of if there
is a problem that we can solve or if
we're later in the process and perhaps
doing a presentation or pitch or demo
are we going to make sure we show them
the the right value to all the questions
we uncovered and all the issues we
uncovered earlier in the sales process
rather than just kind of thinking like i
need to get this deal i need to get this
deal let's have a like you said a
lighter conversation
so i guess it
doesn't kind of stress you down and
doesn't stress out the buyer at the same
time
exactly
cool and then you can actually have more
meaningful open conversations
um
great good stuff
all right so let's let's wrap this up
with how we can put all this that we've
learned and feel free to to leverage
some some marketing points if you wish
or we can keep it towards sales on
how we can use all this knowledge all
this intel to to acquire our very first
10 customers what if we want to do a
step by step or what are some of the
things that we need to do to to make
sure we actually get some customers on
board and get some cash in the bank all
importantly
yeah absolutely
um
i think the first thing in that journey
of getting your early customers is to
remember that the thing that is you know
going against you the most as a startup
uh is not you know whether your product
is the best or
anything else right the thing that is
going against you really is the lack of
trust
right and so what you're trying to solve
for is trying to solve for trust and if
you think of the journey uh with that
perspective it gives you a lot of
clarity and it gives you a very
different set of levers that you want to
play around with right so when you're
trying to get your first-time customers
you're not trying to convince them that
this is the best product that they can
ever have in the world for solving that
problem because it's probably not going
to be right like let's be honest about
that
um and so why should they buy from you
right
and that kind of also ties back to the
reason why you cannot outsource that to
anybody else but you have to do that as
your as the founder uh people are going
to buy it from you uh fortunately
unfortunately because of you right and
so you need to really be prepared to put
yourself out there uh and you know
whether that is leveraging your network
uh with icp or using a network to get to
the icp if you don't already have access
to it uh that's probably how you should
try and get uh maybe your first two or
three customers um because they are
trusting not the product but they have
some basis of trusting you more than
others
okay any just to dive into that a bit
deeper what
you feel free to use yourself or any
contacts you know as an example does
that
i mean when i when i hear network being
in the b2b world and being on linkedin
more than i ever should um checking
notifications like mad does that mean we
hop onto linkedin or does that mean we
perhaps call our existing contacts or
email them or what does that really look
like
yeah so i think that's a great question
and i think that kind of maybe needs to
be broken up
in a process of its own right
um
i would say that first you need to get
on um maybe not just linkedin right like
you need to actually have conversations
with uh your first circle of people who
you think are going to be believers in
you they might not be your icp right
you're having those conversations with
them not to sell them the idea uh but to
just let them know that this is what
you're working on and this is the type
of people that you want to connect with
right uh i would say that like if you
went and had that conversation with ten
uh
you know strong sponsors in your life uh
each of them uh or you know at least
half of them will be able to give you
like a couple of people that they
believe you can talk to right um and
that's how you would start that
conversation and you can actually kind
of lower the bar for them right and let
them know that you're not going to try
and sell to these people maybe you're
just going to co-build with them you
know i'm going to get feedback
get a little bit deeper and then um
you also don't want them to kind of feel
that their relationship is going to be
at stake at the end of that
um
so i would say that you know maybe
instead of like going really broad and
doing a spray and pray approach early on
it's helpful to actually have those
conversations uh spend some time talking
to people evangelizing about it uh and
uh getting you know the first set of ten
conversations set up um the other tip
that somebody gave me and that came
really handy wasn't this is of course
pre-pandemic when you could actually go
meet people in coffee shops right it
would be like you know you would meet
somebody in the coffee shop and they
would tell you like uh you know that's
you know the first 10 people that your
contacts are uh connected you with uh
and they said oh yeah you know what i
know somebody else who might be uh might
find this useful um so have your
kind of message ready for asking for
that connect so the problem that often
happens is you know i speak to people
all the time today on the other side
where they're like hey is this
interesting to you and i'll be like you
know what this is not interesting to me
but i know of a couple of people who
might find this interesting um and then
you know they go quiet and maybe they
reach out to me like three days later by
when i've actually forgotten maybe the
initial context right so the second tip
is to kind of have that message ready um
there's a very clear small ask saying
hey you know what you mentioned that you
can introduce me to these two people
here is a quick excerpt of what you can
tell them about the company and uh can
you make the introduction right so again
be prompt um and
the third
kind of part of that process is
uh don't feel bad if somebody uh you
know forget doesn't respond and that
doesn't mean that you just kind of let
them off so hope uh feel free to follow
up right this is your life this is going
to be the most important thing for you
and you alone it's not going to be the
most important thing for anybody else in
the world right so you kind of have to
kind of up the game and keep the states
high for yourself uh and and don't like
you know don't take offense don't take
no for an answer
um so i would say that's kind of the
first
set of things to do to maybe have like
those first 30 40 conversations
uh
ideally out of those 30 40 conversations
you should be able to get maybe two or
three people uh who are willing to give
you a chance that's awesome the fruit is
in the follow-up right
it is absolutely in the follow-up really
like that breakdown um that's an
interesting way to look at it so
basically it sounds like we're looking
at a low friction ask
to
whether our friends our contacts and
just making them aware of what our
business is offering i guess who it can
potentially help and then perhaps half
of the people we speak to will then have
some intros for us which then we can
have an initial conversation with may
lead to sales opportunities may not if
not at least you get great feedback on
your product if it does great you might
have a potential customer and then just
making sure that we follow up with those
those potential leads
effectively to um to get some initial
kind of two three or so deals over the
line that's that's great stuff okay so
we've done that
what what are some of the next things we
should consider
yeah so you know it's exactly like at
every stage you kind of think of it as a
pyramid right so you maybe had one
person who might have known two people
who you then asked for another couple of
intros
and so now you have your first three
customers and now you need to kind of
jump to the next stage of trust building
right so the first day of trust building
was all about people who knew you who
from your background felt that they
could trust you or they knew somebody
who uh felt that they could trust you
right
now you need to kind of abstract out
that trust to the second layer and to
abstract that trust out what you need to
do is
uh you need to use these people uh and
their feelings about the product to
build trust with the next set of people
um so it's really important to you know
work closely with maybe these three
people
now and get case studies and
testimonials video testimonials whatever
you can uh where they talk about the
product and how it has helped them right
uh what people do is sometimes they just
kind of keep going down that funnel of
like you know using network over and
over and over again uh to kind of get
the early customers but what that does
is two things one like you said right
like the the network might not give you
the most honest feedback and two uh then
you know you also don't want to wear out
your network
right yeah um
so i think that once you have
you know those first three four
customers you should move to the second
part of it which is uh then again focus
on the product building focus on making
these uh people successful uh and using
them uh to kind of then amplify the
voice not just of yourself but of the
product and the value that it brings
um so i would say that you know that
that's the kind of stage to
switch and do case studies and i know
that in the early days when you are like
maybe a team of three or four people uh
doing case studies might seem like you
know priority number 35
but it's
it's actually something that you can do
relatively easily all right like today
you can ask people to go just write
reviews for you on g2 if they've liked
the product uh get them to maybe get on
a call like this do a video interview
with them that you can then use for
video testimonials um even start off
with simple things like that but you
kind of really have to move to phase two
of trust building
yeah
awesome awesome stuff so
i think that's probably something that
gets forgotten a lot right um i suppose
especially if you're a founder and you
just
you've got a hundred things on your
plate whether that's sorting out your
product swinging out your team
making sure
everything is going right there's no
technical issues and then at the same
time you've got to think about marketing
and you've got a thing about selling
perhaps once you've got your three
customers you completely forget that
getting getting that social proof
getting those testimonials all those
review videos or those case studies or
whatever that looks like is so important
because
as we've talked about on other episodes
they don't only help in the sense of
they build trust with prospects they're
perhaps checking out your website but
they can also be
really good like we've alluded to the
whole episode for actually literally
taking the words from your custom mouse
on how they describe your product to
their news on your on your sales calls
right as that could be storytelling as
in how you had a case study if you took
someone from
having various issues of pain and then
your product came along you had a
conversation with them and now this is
the world that they're living in and the
better place that they are now and many
other examples of of that so that's
that's really good stuff okay
so that's all good this is there is
there further things that we need to to
do or is that how we're going to get
most of our 10 customers or other other
pieces to the puzzle
no i think this is it for the first 10
customers and then of course the third
stage of trust building which comes
maybe at a bigger scale is
uh
you know instead of
your customers speaking about you you
then uh maybe have like external
validation like
you know g2 badges a carton or a
gardener or record mission of some sort
uh as ways for building trust but you
know one way to kind of think about how
you scale the company is to think of it
in uh abstract and more abstract ways of
uh building trust with customers
awesome
brilliant stuff well she really enjoyed
the conversation today thanks very much
for for coming on and sharing some
really actionable no bs useful tips for
anyone that started a business or
thinking of doing so
with that please do tell us more about
how we can get in touch with your
business how we can connect and how we
can learn from you
absolutely i think just like sam i do
spend an inordinate amount of time on
linkedin um so yeah you can always find
me on linkedin my full name is shruti
kapoor
my company is wingman the website is
drivingman.com so if if you're in that
journey where you're maybe uh looking to
also capture the voice of customer not
just for yourself but you know also for
your product and marketing teams to
benefit from um go check that out and uh
yeah happy to have a conversation on
linkedin anytime
awesome we'll put all of those links
over on the site at business growth dot
marketing and with that i want to thank
you once again for coming on truth you
really enjoyed it
thank um
no worries and if you enjoyed the show
as always we interview business leaders
each and every week to provide
actionable tips across marketing across
sales all with the goal to grow your
revenue and grow your sales so be sure
to hit that subscribe button and with
that we should catch you on the next one